---
title: "Why Student Cheats”"
layout: single
excerpt: "Student cheat because of bad habbit, culture, and external pressure."
sitemap: true
author_profile: false
category: "Random"
tags:
  - "English"
---

Today, I will address one of the most common problem we, as a school student,
encounter. It was cheating. Cheating, by definition, is to act dishonestly or
unfairly to gain advantage. This was usually done by student at examination time
or while doing assignment. Cheating can be done in various ways, such by looking
at text book, hiding a secret note, or simply by seeing others friend answer
directly. Cheating, if become a habit, can potentially cause a harmful effect on
the future of the student and country. It promotes lie, intrigue, laziness, and
other bad characteristic. But, why are the students cheat? There is some
possible answer.

First is the lack of awareness. Student may or may not realize that cheating is
harmful for them. In short term, it looks easy and simple, but in long term it
will hurt them more, because they are not really studying when in school, thus
will give them handicap under them who are diligent when in school.

Second is the lack of attention. The teacher may didn’t know that student is
cheating in class, or they just didn’t care. Cheating, by some student, is like
an art, always changing and creative. This, and the capability and function
given by modern gadget, like phone and messaging system, make tracking the
student cheating activity harder, and thus encouraging them to continuously
cheating.

Third is, it’s just a “culture”. Many student cheat because they imitate their
friend, who in turn learn it from other friend or their senior. It becomes a
vicious cycle. Senior teach their junior, who will teach their junior and so on.
If this was the case, it will hard to break the cheating case.

So, that was few of reason why student are cheating. I believe that there was
more of cause why they do it. If we want to remove the cheating problem
completely, we must find the fix of the reason, one by one.
